# Barton

- **The essay is, generally, well written**. However, you use incorrect words ("demonstrate"), or excessively repeat "this analysis." In social sciences, we don't "demonstrate," nor "proof" anything. We "suggest," our evidence "indicates," or our papers "point out." Also, the argument is hard to follow since the paper has to many long sentences.
- **Mechanism is too ambitious**. First, it is good you thought about, and developed a causal mechanism (in p. 4). However, your mechanism suffers from a number of problems:
  1. It's too complex. It is so complex, with so many moving parts, that it was destined to be under-developed. Some parts were undefined (see p. 4 and p. 6).
  2. It's endogenous. While its constitutive parts (i.e. economic development, low levels of inequality, democracy, and state capacity) are analytically independent from each other, the works you cite suggest the contrary. In other words, while your cause (econ dev. and equality), and your consequence (dem. and st. capacity), might be independent, democracy is linked to state capacity (Slater). Any causal mechanism is assumed to have independent factors.
- **Scope condition**. You explain that "clearly the degree to which a state is able to implement these policies..." So, you (correctly) argue that state capacity is a scope condition. Yet, in your causal mechanism (p. 4), you consider state capacity as a cause (and not something between the cause and the effect, as it should be with any scope condition).
- **The instructions read "The essay should have between 2 to 3 direct quotes from the primary materials of the course."** Your essay does not present any quote at all.

# Sullivan

- First paragraph got me lose immediately: You were supposed to motivate the problem, and propose an answer. Yet, you say (twice) that "there is no perfect answer" and that there "so many conflicting theories." So, what are you proposing? First paragraph is too disorganized.
- The paper has too many grammatical mistakes, and typos. A second by the author should have corrected those easily. Did the author read his paper before submitting it?
- Your essay presents lots of interesting discussion about the readings. It integrates, here and there, your opinion about the readings. Unfortunately, your work is not well structured. It is unclear what your **argument** is. It can't be the "democracy is difficult," or any of the ambiguous sentences in the first two paragraphs. Never leave your reader wondering about your argument. It needs to be declared up front (no later than second paragraph). I got the impression that you had a list of papers to talk about, and that you wrote essay having that list in mind, as you were adding some commentary. Any essay, as explained in lecture, states the problem and proposes a solution. Usually, it also follows the rule: say what you're going to say (my solution to the problem is X: "In this paper I will argue X"), say it ("X"), say it again ("in this paper I argued X"). And I think the problem begins with your title: it is too broad, and does not signal what "X" is in your paper.

# Eidson

- Your essay begins good. First paragraph sets the stage for what's ahead. However, it heavily relies on just one single piece, Haber. Remember that we also talked about Acemoglu and Robinson, and Lipset. In the first case, an autocrat can survive longer if it maintains low levels of inequality. In the second case, if it maintains rapid economic growth. Now, while you do answer the question ("describe three methods of authoritarian survival"), you essay lacks "color." That is, it builds on just one author, which makes it a little bit monotonous.
- Typos, and grammar errors are supposed to be fixed before printing your essay. I will not consider hand-written corrections.

# Allen

- The title promised, and the essay delivered. It is generally well written. It does have an underlying theme, which is developed throughout the essay. It also integrates well your ideas, and the material.
- While the first paragraph admits that this is a complex issue where there "will not be a neatly drawn arrow drawing the direction of growth to democracy," you also say that "there does seem to be a trend of economic growth and the the rise of political democracies." However, that conflicts with the idea that "democracy was not necessary to increase the economic growth of these imperialist nations." That might be a reasonable idea, but it is unclear what's the argument you want to convince your reader about. Never leave your reader unclear of what your intentions are. The second part of the essay is interesting. It leverages a critique to capitalism, building on colonial theory. I think that's interesting. Since most theories we've discussed in class are endogenous to domestic preferences, bringing in exogenous chocks (a country being colonized by other country) adds color to your argument. However, as I was reading the essay, it ended too abruptly. I was hoping to be reminded of your idea via a conclusion. Remember that effective essays follow the next logic: say what you're going to say (my solution to the problem is X: "In this paper I will argue X"), say it ("X"), say it again ("in this paper I argued X"). Tell your readers what the main take away points are. Scientific papers never end with a large number of ambiguous or unclear facts. Ambiguity might be present, but clear cut ideas should predominate.
